YouTube it's Chris welcome back to the
channel I'm proud to announce I'm
dropping my ultimate Windows
optimization guide today it'll cover all
aspects of Windows 11 and Windows 10 as
far as setting up your operating system
a decent performance latency and frame
rate will'll take a lot of headache out
of doing a fresh install or just going
over your current install and setting
everything up right it'll also help you
take back control from your operating
system rather than Windows telling you
what to do so if that's something that
interests you go ahead and follow
through with this video just like to say
a big thank you to all of you this has
been my most successful video for
everything through windows and
explaining everything that's exactly
what this guide is going to do and also
this guide is going to be the last guide
that I'll constantly get updated on
GitHub so it's quite exciting I've
decided to completely revamp the channel
thank you so much for the bottom of my
heart a million views for a video is
pretty huge I'll completely revamp my
socials everything will be linked
through link tree so if you need
anything from me or any of my links go
to my link tree you'll see a link for
link Tree on every single social media
website that I have click on the link
tree and to get the files for this video
scroll down and click on GitHub here's
my GitHub page I'd appreciate a follow
if you have an account my optim ization
pack will always be on here and any
files that are used for future videos
will all be put up on here go ahead down
to pinned and click ultimate Windows
optimization guide to download the file
simply click code click download zip if
you guys have any issues or any
suggestions I'd really appreciate you
guys using GitHub uh posting your issues
or requests here start with the
optimization we'll go to file explorer
go to our downloads we'll right click it
and go extract all and then hit extract
let's drag that to the desktop just to
make it a little bit easier for this
video go ahead and we'll open the folder
here are all the files that you need now
what we need to do first is you'll
notice that a lot of these files are
blocked let's go ahead and run allow
scripts and we'll tell smart screen it's
okay run anyway we'll click yes and as
you can see here we've got scripts on
and scripts off very very simple to use
so we'll just type one and we'll press
enter it'll come up with a little prompt
saying enabled Powershell scripts and
unblocked files pressing a key to
continue all the files are completely
unblocked
[Music]
let also changed the execution policy
for Powershell so we can actually run
Powershell scripts properly and it's
also allowed us to double click po shell
scripts let's start with check in check
we have space check so we'll double
click that now if you guys don't see
this and it's opened with notepad I want
you to right click go open with go
choose another app click Powershell
click always once you've done that the
icon should look quite a lot different
it's all about saving time let's double
click on Space check okay now this is
some info I want you guys to maintain at
least 10% free space especially on ssds
ssds were completely full so you'll see
it in the red if it's completely full
can really slow down the system
especially if it is your main Windows
driver now just press any key if nothing
comes up in the Powershell script then
it should close all right let's go ahead
and we'll do Ram check so you guys know
this guide has sort of made in a way to
cover all aspects of Windows and your
actual PC um especially after working a
lot of computers with my optimization
service I've seen a lot of uh things
that people either get wrong they miss
or they don't understand or they have
faulty Hardware or something isn't set
up properly so I wanted to make this
guide in a really easy simple and
straightforward way for you to
understand everything that's sort of
going on and what to check and what to
actually get right let's start with the
first option check XMP docp Expo is
enabled so what is that all right so if
any of you guys get a little bit lost on
what anything is you can simply give it
a bit of a Google if you like but what
XMP DSP Expo is is just your RAM profile
so most gaming PCs will have a ram
profile that is not on by default server
and Enterprise builds and work builds
sometimes they don't or really really
cheap PCS they don't the ram doesn't
have a ram profile on or if you have a
really cheap board it might not allow
you to enable that profile 99% out of
you will be able to enable this and it's
very important all right so how do we
check it's enabled so quite simply what
we're going to do is we're going to go
into memory here we're going to look at
this profile okay then we're going to go
into SPD right and there's my
motherboard has four slots your board
might be a little different most gaming
PCs will have four slots you want to
choose a slot that has the ram okay
here's a slot that has the ram so we
want to go and make sure the for me on
AMD it's got Expo we want to make sure
this profile is on
right so let's look at these numbers
here and we'll go back to memory these
numbers don't line up the profile isn't
on I actually specifically didn't have I
have bios at defaults at the moment just
to show you guys but we definitely want
to get this on so that's something we
need to address in BIOS okay we also
want to verify Ram is in the correct
slots so let's go back to SPD all
right we have slot one which will be the
one closest to the CPU Slot 2 slot three
and Slot 4 now for jeel Channel which is
what I currently have now the the jeel
channel is like two sticks okay you want
them in slot two and four check your
motherboard manual for this and make
sure you get it right if you don't have
it right you might actually have issues
with even running the ram profile if you
want to turn it on or you might just be
having issues with the PC in general
it's quite important to make sure you
have the RAM sticks in the Right Slots
check your motherboard manual to do so
it's very very easy to do just just to
be sure 46 you don't have to worry if
it's no floor board okay but um two
sticks nine times out of 10 from what
I've seen you want them in slot two and
four but check your motherboard manual
it's quite important I see a lot of
people get that wrong now we want to
confirm there is no mismatch in Ram
modules this is huge mismatch Ram is a
huge no no so what I mean by generally
rule thumb try to stick to the same part
number right or at least the same
profile of sticks I'd prefer you to just
stick with the same part number to keep
things easier but say you've got one
stick of eight and one stick of 16
that's a big no no like say you've got
one ram stick that is 5,000 MHz and
another Ram stick that is 6,000 MHz that
is a big no no so you it's very very
important to keep them the same now you
can if you know what you're doing and
you know how to tune things in BIOS you
can make some different RAM sticks work
but I highly don't recommend it for most
of you out there all right most General
users just make sure you don't mismatch
Ram it's very very important okay to fix
that if you do have mismatch Ram all
right so how do I check if I have
mismatch Rams so let's find all the
memory modules that I have in this board
so I know I have slots two and four okay
so we'll click on slot two what I want
to check here is I want to check the
part number and I also wanted to check
the part number slot for and make sure
they're exactly the same that's an easy
way to do it um also probably just keep
an eye out just in case some Ram 6 have
the same part numbers we can simply see
sort of how much memory there is so
module size so let's look at module size
we got 16 gig in slot two and 16 gig 16
gig in slot four so we're good we don't
have mismatch Ram here but I have seen
quite a lot of people out there have
mismatch RAM and it can cause a lot of
issues with the system right now I've
written this here at least two RAM
sticks duel channel is ideal okay if
you've got a single stick it might be a
good idea to just grab the part number
go on Amazon go ahead and get yourself
another Ram stick Ser you in jeel
Channel there is a bit of a significant
difference from single Channel just be
one stick to dual Channel and there also
is some gains in going quad Channel and
this is not even talking about rank
either rank is completely separate I
don't want to get covered into that it's
a little bit too in depth but at least
try to have at least a dual Channel
system you'll see most gaming pces are
dual channel for that reason but just
something I wanted to point out so we've
checked that and we're all good other
than we need to enable our Ram profile
that's one thing that we're missing that
we haven't done yet all right so we'll
just go ahead and press any key it'll
close let's go ahead and we'll open GPU
check opening GPU check here allow the
UAC prompt going to install GPU it
should be a bit of a text dialogue that
comes up and explains what to check in
GPU this is a lot of things that I've
seen people get wrong or sort of Miss
the last to install GPC just press no
and just to let you guys know all these
files are getting downloaded in your
temp folder so they're not permanently
on the system so when you go to do a
disc clean up they'll be wiped um so it
won't take up too much space on your
system and it's not intrusive it's sort
of being designed that way when you open
this if you've got a laptop or you've
got your PC with your igpu enabled if
you see Microsoft this basic display
adapter please go ahead and change it to
your current graphics card cuz that's
actually what we're going to be checking
I don't care about anything else right
so let's go to that things to check so
here's what I want you guys to check and
I see a lot of people get wrong check
PCI bus interfaces at maximum so what do
I mean by that we can go to bus
interface here as you can see um my
current setup is supported for 16 times
and 4.0 all right PCI 4.0 so PCI 16
times and PCI 4.0 where the little ad is
it's what it's currently at there there
some power saving going on go ahead and
press the question mark to get the card
under load and as you can see we are in
16 times in 4.0 now if it fluctuates a
little bit don't worry about it we will
be disabling those uh power saving
features completely so it will always
show it at its Max later on when we I'll
follow through with this guide if you
are not in 4.0 you might have a older
motherboard which is normal so say I had
this graphics card paired with I don't
know a z390 Intel motherboard or
something like that um that only
supports PCI 3.0 so that would be
totally fine um but if you were not in
PCI 16 times which all mod motherboards
should support that you probably need to
check that I see a lot of people that I
get that wrong it's all about sharing
Lanes with the CPU a lot of the times
I've seen if you're only in eight times
right uh a lot of the time it could be
um maybe you've got your motherboard
full of nvme drives and it only supports
16 times for the graphics card if you're
only using one or two um you're going to
have tock the motherboard manual for
that and see how it sort of uses the PC
um the CPU Lanes now there isn't a huge
performance difference between PCI 4.0
and 3.0 and there isn't a huge
performance difference between PCI 8
times and 16 times but you'll at least
want to be running at its maximum if you
want the most out of your system you
paid money for this system and it should
be running um the way it should be right
so next step we want to verify monitor
cable is connected to the GPU so what do
I mean by that so specifically for my
systems not all systems my mother
motherboard actually has a HDMI and
display port cable um Port I would not
want to have my monitors or single
monitor plugged into that because I
would not be using my graphics card to
play games or do tasks or run programs I
would be using the CPU so that's just
something to keep in mind I've seen some
people get that wrong if you have one
monitor or multiple monitors please plug
everything into the graphics card not
the motherboard and another thing
confirmed GPU is in the top PCI
motherboard slot that's pretty
self-explanatory and that might be
another reason why your graphics card
isn't running at its maximum bus
interface as a general rule of thumb
always have your graphics card in the
top PC slot I do understand some systems
may have issues with certain cooler
clearances and you might need to bring
it down a SL if that is the case just
try to come in check the bus interface
make sure it's at maximum all right last
but not least uh running multiple
graphics cards is not recommended so why
do I say this uh most of you are going
to be running a single card so you don't
have to worry about this any of you that
are running multiple graphics cards out
there I would highly recommend just
taking them out and selling them or
getting rid of them all right and here's
why multiple graphics cards is great for
benchmarks benchmarks uh optimized for
multiple
cards nowadays game developers do not
optimize for multiple graphics cards so
whether it be um SL NV link or the AMD
equivalent of running multiple graphics
cards all right there is is slowly added
length to running multiple graphics
cards with the way things have to work
and the way things are going with AMD
and Nvidia they're not really supporting
it for games and game developers are
lazy and they will not make it work for
multiple graphics cards so you could
actually be harming your latency and
harming your frames and harming your
performance having multiple graphics
cards trying to run a game always uh run
a single card if you can now let's
double click on this to do a bias update
so we'll press yes I really highly
recommend updating your bias a lot of
motherboard websites look a little
different don't get too confused you
just need to find the support page go to
the support page and click bios okay
those might look a little different we
want to grab the latest bios that is not
beta so you have I have a new bios um
yeah I don't want to be on that don't go
on a beta bios let's go on a non beta so
um we've got 2.1.0 we'll go ahead and
we'll download that so I will need to
extract this and then I will need to
place this file somewhere so if you have
a USB stick we'll place this file on the
USB stick all right let's go to bio
settings so here's a basic prompt on
what to do for Bio settings bare minimum
these are the things you want to do on
an Intel CPU you want to enable the
rampo file we've already talked about
that it can make quite a huge difference
on the computer all right on Intel CPUs
you want to disable C States this will
stop the CPU from downclocking um when
you're playing games and doing tasks
with C States on it's great for power
saving but as a general power user you
want it off Intel CPU enable resize bar
um I'm not going to get into too much
depth with that but as a general rule of
them just always enable it okay so most
modern motherboards have this feature
it'll give give you a little bit more
performance so on some boards it's
called rebar on some boards it's called
cam on some boards it's called resize by
I just enable that now on AMD CPUs same
thing again enable the ram profile um
you want to enable Precision boost
overdrive which is sort of like an auto
overclock on the CPU it'll help it boost
a little bit more and enable resizable
bar okay now as far as disabling SE
States on AMD CPUs you can but it's not
going to help it's a different design in
a different architecture some CPUs that
will actually boost a little better on
AMD uh without touching C so Auto is
actually enabled by default there's just
no point disabling C States on AMD
that's why it's not mentioned here we
want to set our pump so if you've got a
water cooler set your pump to Max
performance um max speed um and set if
hands to Performance as well now things
a little too loud on your case fans
that's fine turn those down a little bit
but as a general rule of fun if you've
got an air coer try to crank up the uh
CPU uh fan coolers up a little bit and
the pump up Max uh to a point where it's
comfortable for you it's not too loud
now here's another big thing we want to
disable any driver installer software so
whether it be Asus Armory create MSI
driver utility gigabyte update utility
ASRock motherboard utility so these
features are really handy um if you've
install a Windows and it doesn't have a
default internet
driver um but as a general th apart from
that all this stuff does is install
bloatware on your system and you'll have
a bunch of tasks Services programs and
dri driv running in the background and
even if you try to uninstall them it can
be quite painful to get rid of
everything even if you think you've got
rid of everything there still drivers
and stuff left behind that might still
be running and why we don't want this is
we want minimal background tasks as
possible because things like this will
affect CPU usage while you're playing
games and they will affect your frames a
little bit on really good systems not so
much on medium to lowend systems quite a
bit so we just want anything that's not
going to tank CPU usage and plus some of
this stuff has spyware in it as well so
you just stay away from it completely
now I've plugged in the USB stick just
going to open it here I'm just going to
drag that file to the USB stick we can
go ahead and we can do the bias update
so right here it's going to make life
quite a lot easier this will actually
beat you to bias so if we press space
bar or to any key it'll say press y to
restart the bias so we're going to type
y doesn't matter if uppercase or lower
case and press enter now it says
restarting to bias press any key to
restart so I'm just going to press any
key and it will say you're about to be
signed out windows will shut down less
than a minute so this is really handy
this command line to boot into bias if
you have issues getting into bias with
your certain keyboard usually is a
general with thumb restarting the
computer or turning on the computer
spamming the delete key or the F F2 key
will usually always get your into bias
you can also get um into bias through
the recovery menu and I'll quickly show
you guys that that now if you have an
issue getting into bias with your
current keyboard basically hold shift so
hold down the shift key go ahead and
restart the computer that should take
you on the recovery screen as you can
see in the recovery screen here I'll
show you another way to get into the
recovery screen if your shift is having
issues go ahead and click on the start
menu just go ahead to the options just
search um recovery recovery options and
we should be what we want to do is we go
to advance start off so you press
restart now to get into bias from the
recovery screen let's go ahead and click
troubleshoot Advance options and then
ufi firmware settings now I have seen
some PC systems certain graphics cards
and motherboards that are not compatible
with certain mod monitors in BIOS if
that is the case and your doing
everything and you just can't get into
bias all you see is a black screen go
ahead and plug your PC or your laptop or
whatever into a um into a TV or
something different or a different
monitor we've got our bios update file
on a USB stick every motherboard looks
quite a lot different but don't be too
overwhelmed usually tool so gigabyte AOK
which is what I have right now um MSI
Asus usually it's always in tool just
have a bit of a look Sometimes some
boards have a search function sometimes
uh some boards are called Q flash m
flash we're just going to go ahead and
press on that now it's having a carry on
about bit Locker most of you won't have
bit Locker on now but if you do have bit
Locker on want to go ahead and turn that
off otherwise you make your drive
unrecoverable so most of you shouldn't
have bit Locker on I know some laptops
do out of the box anyway we'll go ahead
and hit update now if you don't see this
file here on your from your USB stick
you may very well need to format the USB
stick or try different USB sticks some
motherboards are a little bit funky with
certain USB sticks all right so we'll go
ahead and we'll hit update and we'll hit
yes all right bias is fully updated but
we've booted back into windows we need
to get back into BIOS so we can change
our bio settings take note of this or
take a photo with your camera if you
need to just so you can remember the
settings that you need to change some of
you guys might see a sort of easy mode
right by default I would highly
recommend going into the advanced mode
the advanced mode on my pod specifically
it's a little odd I have to go to OC
tweaker most of you should see XMP dacp
or Expo up here for me it's a little bit
annoying but I have to go to dram
profile configuration I want to go ahead
and want to switch this to expoo on
Intel it is usually XMP um or docp so it
will load our speeds timings and
voltages all for us we don't have to
worry about it okay another thing we
want to do is we want to enable resize
bar PCI configuration so resize B now
nine times out of 10 most modern boards
and bios if you're on a bios update will
enable it by default I have seen some
that will not go ahead and enable this
now some boards won't show this option
if you've got above 4G decoding disabled
so if you do go ahead and enable above
4G decoding and then you should see
resize bar and you should have the
option to enable it now another thing we
want to do is we want enable Precision
boost overdrive so lucky for me this
board has a performance preset PBO
enabled now if you don't see this on
your AMD board you may need need to go
to
Advanced and AMD clock overclocking and
then Precision boost overdrive and you
can just turn it on there to enabled
this is a safe setting to turn on and
you shouldn't have any issues with it so
definitely have this on now if you have
an Intel system nine times out of 10 on
all boards you need to go to Advanced
CPU
configuration and then down here there
should be something called C state so
you might need to go Advanced CPU power
management and disable C states there
specifically on this board it's an amdc
CBS CPU common options and Global Cate
control on most Intel boards it will
just be called cstate control please
disable this if you are in intel if
you're on AMD there is just no point and
it might harm the Boost algorithm so
just leave it we need to Max the pump
and set fans to Performance so most of
you should sort of have a fan setting
you want to put your your water pump in
Max and the CPU fans in extrem or Max um
and we also want to but probably turn up
the the case fans a little bit too cover
that now as far as disabling Asus armor
crate MSI driver utility gigabyte update
utility ASRock motherboard utility on
Asus boards it's usually in MSI boards I
can't remember gigabyte boards I'm sorry
I can't remember on this azrock board
it's in tool so that pretty much covers
the basics of BIOS obviously there's
quite a little bit more to CPU tuning
memory tuning but I'm going to be honest
with you guys it's getting to the point
with Modern Hardware where if you buy CP
you kind of be getting the max out of
the box already especially if you buy
the top of the line one like say a 13900
K 14900 k m is already really pushed out
of the box and there's actually not much
head room to push it a little bit
further obviously you know let's just
say you get a 14 600k or like a 13 600k
there's actually a little bit of
Headroom cuz it's not clocked out of the
box as much but we're only looking at a
couple of percent here with most modern
CPUs it's not like back in the day when
you had 8700k and it would only boost to
to 4.4 and you could get boost to 5 51
52 and that the performance difference
was huge nowadays it's actually very
very minimal so don't feel like you're
missing out on much by not heavily
tuning your system uh heavily tuning
your system takes a lot of time and a
lot of headache um and sometimes needs
to be Revisited um because you might
tune it and you might be running fine
you've done a bunch of stress tests
everything's good and you could get a
little bit of degradation or get a crash
in a certain AVX application it's a lot
of headache for just a small game so as
a general rule of thumb most modern CPUs
you're not missing out much by tuning
now Ram tuning there is a little bit to
be made on x3d AMD CPUs don't bother
you're only going to get a 1% gain I'm
I'm telling you just don't even bother
if you going an X3 CPU try to look at
going maybe more RAM so maybe quad rank
quad Channel or dual rank uh dual
Channel at least right at least dual
Channel like I said but you're not
missing out on much on an x3d chip now a
non x3d AMD uh CPU there is quite a bit
of gain tuning timings I'm obviously not
going to get into that here but at that
point I would highly recommend selling
that and then buying an x3d chip right
because it'll slap into your motherboard
and very very minimal money you'll have
to spend by the time you've sold your
CPU now on Intel there is quite a bit of
scaling with memory tuning so I don't
want to fail to mention that here we're
looking roughly at I want to say 4 to 7%
in performance considering you're
running a CPU bound game there is a bit
of scaling with um Intel on RAM chinning
but that's about it like let's just say
roughly 4% okay um you're not missing
out on much and next year there's going
to be a better CPU right um so at that
point it's a lot of headache and a lot
of hassle to tune Ram you could just buy
a better Ram kit right obviously check
compatibility and I'm going to get into
that a little bit later in this video
but I just want to mention that heavily
shooting your system you're not missing
out on much if you don't do it right so
don't worry too much there are a lot of
people out there that are obsessed this
stuff and that go all out and will sort
of bash the importance on on truning I I
promise you after testing everything
with my leny tools and having multiple
multiple different systems and some
systems I've gone all out where I've
deleted CPUs um you know direct die you
know custom aor on my graphics card it
gets to a point where only a couple of
percent isn't much when you're already
getting so many good frames with a good
system so I just wanted to mention that
here um and also you know it
overclocking is covered under warranty
but there is a lot of headache and
Hassle and a lot of you guys don't worry
about it you know just just look at
upgrading the the hardware itself
because um you know let's say I wanted
to spend weeks tuning this CPU on the
RAM on the CPU and and to get it like a
1% game okay next year there's going to
be a new CPU I can slap into this
motherboard or just buy another board
motherboard in the CPU and it's it's
going to be way more than like that 1%
probably going to be like a 15% gain so
don't stress too much about whether you
should tune your system or not just just
set up the right things and that's why
I've covered these things here these are
the basic set and bios to get your your
system running optimally now something I
will mention in here if you do play you
do play valerant and you do use Windows
11 you are going to have to have secure
boot on all right so you need to find
secure Boot and make sure this is
enabled if you are on Windows 11 playing
valerant you will also need to have
trusted platform module on also all
right TPM it will be called every board
looks a little different I'm very sorry
but you will have to find it and make
sure it's enabled if you do play plan on
playing valerant on Windows 11 now on
Windows 10 you don't actually need to do
that you can have TPM and secure boot
both disabled on Windows 10 play
valerant F something that I need to
mention and also on Windows 11 if you
are doing a default install without an
auto unintended or you're not going to
go into command prompt when you install
it you won't be able to install Windows
11 without both of these enabled now my
method that you'll see when we rein
install Windows in this video we'll
bypass these which is quite nice so any
system can install Windows 11 it'll
bypass the CPU check hard drive check
it'll bypass the um TPM and secure Boot
and and anything that doesn't let you
install storage check windows 11 but I
need to mention that here cuz a lot of
you probably do play valerant and you
might install Windows 11 and you need to
have these two settings on now these
will not actually affect performance
there is a couple of security settings
like core isolation that will affect
performance in Windows and we'll get to
those later and we will want to turn
those off now if you're a controller
player all right and controllers aren't
really coming out of the box with 1,000
HZ you want to overclock your controller
to 1,000 HZ you will need to have secure
boot disabled otherwise you will not be
able to overclock your controller to
1,000 HZ all right so that's pretty much
that now if you're not booting now all
right so give the motherboard a couple
of minutes to train depending on the
system AMD is horrible for Ram training
um Intel is really really good for Ram
training give your system a couple of
minutes to boot if this does not boot
clear the simos so you either take out
the mother turn the power off take out
the motherboard battery put it back in
try to boot it back up and try the
settings again or some motherboards have
a clear simos on the back of them if you
try a couple of times and still have no
luck with booting there could be a
couple of things going on with your
system and I'll mention that a little
bit later and we'll get to that quite
soon we'll go back to check and now
we're on to the next step which is CPU
test here's a bit of dialogue that is
going to explain a bunch of things if
any of you guys having issues with
enabling the ram profile all right so
this opens Prime 95 which is a basic CPU
stress test that I like cuz it it throws
out if there's anything majorly wrong
with the system it'll throw an error as
far as CPU or Ram which is quite nice
there are way better stress tests out
there but a lot of them don't quickly
show errors like Prime 95 does all right
so here's some information on things to
check out for so run a basic CPU stress
test to check for errors check temps and
W hea errors in Hardware info during
this test so as a general of thumb we
want to check temps we running the
stress test a lot of modern CPUs are
designed to run hot under AVX loads
right so you got to see for like 13 900k
13th gen or 14th gen 12th gen they're
kind of designed to just hit a 100 at
AVX and then just down clock so you need
to sort of keep an eye out on that with
those CPUs if you want to know if your
cooler is working properly or not
generally just check sort of game temps
because doing a full CPU stress test
that might do ABX instructions is going
to hit thermal Li it's the CPU is being
designed that way sometimes it's not as
easy to tell whether your cooler is
functioning or not expect thermal
throttling with some of these CPU tests
and benchmarks guys right so what a wha
errors are windows Hardware errors um
we're going to they can tell us if if
you're getting wha errors something is
majorly wrong okay we can easily check
that in Hardware info you can also just
use C Event Viewer okay but uh for sort
of easy and access and especially for
this video be much easier running sort
of a heavy uh stress test and and just
logging it through Hardware info a lot
easier if you ever get wh Arrow
something is majorly wrong so if you are
getting wh ARS uh please reset your bias
back to defaults and then come and
recheck again with another stress test
and if you are getting them on bias
default something is considering you've
already updated your bios something is
majorly wrong with your hardware and
you're either going to have to fix that
yourself or get a PC shop to look at it
right so in Prime 95 window select merge
all workers all right and the reason why
we want to do this so I'm just going to
hit just stress testing and just okay a
general blend just for the purpose of
this video we're just doing a basic test
we're not getting into any advanced
tests like that I just like to use tests
that are simple and easy for these
guides and we'll show quick errors so as
you can see I can't really see if
there's going to be any errors this CPU
has a lot of cores and threads so we're
going to go to window and merge all
workers it'll merge all work is and if
we're getting any errors it'll show up
here right so let's go back to that so
errors should be addressed it's very
important CPU and RAM errors and this
stress test will spit out any Ram or CPU
errors okay from 95 very very quickly
that's why I like it CPU and RAM error
should not be ignored as they can lead
to corrupted corrupted Windows corrupted
files stutters and hites poor
performance input lag shutdowns and blue
screens okay there's nothing worse than
having any of these right and if that is
the case you probably want to wipe your
windows once you've sorted these issues
out I did say let's go to Hardware infer
to check so let's go ahead and we'll
download Harare info so Harare info is
here if you need
it here just hit sensors only and start
and we want to keep an eye out for
anything we readed here obviously we're
read on the physical memory load that's
pretty normal you know Prim 95 is is
ringing the system out right but we can
check now we've got XMP on there General
temps I'm going to look at that there
now if you're on an Intel system right
and you're running this you're going to
be thring you'll probably be hitting
100° it doesn't matter how good your
cooler is you're going to hit 100° and
it will just downclock the CPU that's
pretty normal okay so in that case if
you think you're having issues with your
coer probably see what kind of temps
you're getting in game and I don't want
to give you exact numbers guys but I
want to say probably you know 60 to 80°
should be okay while playing anything
over that is an issue if it's a game
that's direct X12 and loading the
shaders or initially loading into the
map and it spares at 100 that is okay I
could just be the game using an AVX
instruction or something but I don't
really want to get too much into depth
with that cuz it can depend but a lot of
modern CPUs nowadays are designed to
Thermal throttle so just keep that in
mind under certain evx instructions wh
ER is score the way down to the bottom
and just have Hardware info open like
while you're running a stress test
they'll be logged here so it's a lot
easier than going into system event log
if you get any of these something's
really horribly wrong so just like reset
BIOS come back and check
right and rerun the stress test and if
you're still getting them with like bias
updated and bias on defaults uh there's
something horribly wrong with this
system you're probably going to need
either swap parts out to find out why or
get a PC shop to test and do the same
cuz that's all a will do swap out past
see what works Ram overheating typically
over 55° fix case flow and RAM I have
seen a quite a few of my clients have
very very bad case flow and they don't
necessarily have to have a highend kit
that's running high voltages so this kit
that I've got in this system is actually
pretty pretty chill it's only running
like 1.35 volts by default some of the
Intel kits are running quite high like
1.45
1.5 those sort of kits you need to be
really wary because you can get um
issues with certain kits so I want to
say ddr4 B is really temperature
sensitive over 55°
rule of thumb like ddr5 can be
temperature sensitive over 60 but it can
depend on the kit quite a little bit um
and I've seen some kids run really hot
with no issues so it just depends but
just wanted to mention this here because
I have seen people get errors where
there's nothing wrong with the system it
is just a simple matter of bad air flow
in the case or bad air flow where the
RAM sticks are some of you guys might
have RAM sticks without temperature
sensors on them so you might not be able
to see this here I have seen a lot of
faulty RAM sticks so a lot of people and
it's very very common probably the most
common thing uh people will come to me
for an optimization service because that
there's something wrong with the
computer and nine times out of 10 it's a
faulty stick right so these will throw
errors in a CPU stress test and a memory
stress test right um sometimes cause
lots of issues sometimes cause sort of
no issues at all just silently in the
background not blue screening not
crashing the PC not anything is slowly
corrupting the windows and and and
people with that sort of configuration
might find themselves reinstalling
Windows every few months cuz things just
don't feel quite right you don't
necessarily have to get crashes to have
faults or errors right unfortunately a
lot of these are related so you could be
getting errors in a ram stress test or a
CPU stress test and it could be any of
these so when it comes to diagnosing
there's nothing special that a PC shop
would do they would simply just swap out
Parts our next step is Ram test if
you're running basic bias settings like
we are in this video don't be too
concerned if we've overclocked the
system or you're running some heavy
overclocks you're going to want to
probably use a different stress test and
a lot long now that there could be a
case you could have a faulty part and it
won't throw an error at all only in a
certain stress test in a certain
scenario unfortunately there is no goto
to do a ram stress test and there is no
go-to to do a CPU stress test I've have
seen some faulty boards some faulty CPUs
brand you out of the box it's even
happened to me personally as well so
these things do happen it is doing it
this time but sometimes it won't do it
at all there's not really another Ram
stress test that I'd be comfortable with
putting out there that could
show um errors pretty quickly or pretty
conveniently so this one's quite good
given that for wh errors Windows errors
your RAM stick temperatures you know if
they're getting over in the 55s and the
60s you're going to want to address that
that could throw errors and when you
think about it you might think well it's
only running
60° while I'm running the stress test
that's all very well and good bit think
you guys have a you have graphics card
in your computer that is pushing hot air
into the computer or maybe a coer that
is pushing hot air into the computer
there are a lot of components that will
heat up the computer so a long gaming
session you might be fine for a 5H hour
gaming session you you get that 6 hour
into that 6- hour gaming session and
starts throwing errors let it do three
cycles and finish and we want zero
errors any errors is bad fix it if you
get an error fix it we go to GPU test I
don't want to get too in depth most gpus
you've got 3 years warranty you can just
send it back if you have issues per
Market is really heavy so it will push
your card very very very very heavily a
driver crash could just be like a quick
black screen and then back to this
desktop or this just keeps closing out
that could be a driver crash um we make
sure no shutdowns the PC just the screen
just goes black and the PC is sort of
like in an idle State you've get nothing
and then blue screens are pretty
self-explanatory it's a very heavy
stress test you probably want to get
your advertised boost clock usage is 97%
so that's pretty normal so just keep
that in mind with fermar and if I just
go play play a game like a usual game
that I would play with some settings
turned down like I'm usually always
going to hit Max GP boost but this is a
heavy stress test by design for a reason
to test if there is something wrong with
your card let's go to refresh so I want
to give you guys a couple of options on
to refresh your windows now ideally I
would like all of you to
reinstall now I'm not going to expect
all of you to do that but it you will
probably get the best results out of
your system doing a complete fresh wipe
and reinstall because it'll delete any
leftover files and registry keys and and
um just weird drivers left behind or
whatever like that so a fresh wipe would
be best there's a couple of different
options that we we can do we hit get
started with this video we're just going
to hit remove everything so how would
you like to reinstall Windows let's do
Cloud download let's go ahead and we'll
hit
next we'll go ahead and press reset
so we've just factually reseted our PC
this is what we see here just going to
click um just like your language and
keyboard and stuff like that we can do
this later in Windows if we really need
to so I'm just going to press yes yes
and Skip now here's where some of you on
a laptop probably won't be able to force
Pro I have a workaround for that but if
you do a fresh install in the method
that I'd like you to do the auto
unattended should take care of
that we are license agreement click
accept all right so if you do see this I
would recommend setting up for an
organization so you could try to force a
local account it may not let you the
work around for that if it doesn't let
you if you're on um a Windows 11 setup
you can press shift and F10 hold shift
in F10 you should see command prompt and
then the command is o
o SL
bypass nro and then enter and cuz we're
on a Windows 10 system that won't work
so we can just click the domain join
instead uh name the PC whatever you want
it to be I'm just going to call it freey
hit next and password is up to you um I
don't like to use a password on my
computer I like it to boot very very
quickly straight into windows so I'm
going to just leave it blank you can
leave it blank if you like it's a nice
thing about a local account you don't
have to set a password so any of this
stuff just click not now turn all this
stuff off don't select any of this we'll
press skip we'll press not now for
Cortana if you do a fresh install with
my auto and intend you won't have to do
any of this stuff now if you have issues
try to setting up a local account um
sometimes unplugging your ethernet cable
can help on a laptop might be a little
bit more complicated if you do end up
with home it's not a big deal I have a
very easy and simple script to set you
up with Pro
[Music]
so now I will show you guys another
method to do a bit of a reset of your PC
we've got a count local so let's say
that you don't want to to factory reset
Windows and you don't want to fresh
install you can actually just create
another account and delete the old
account let's just say you're on a
Windows account and you would like to
get on a local account and we'll go to
account local I'll show you how to do
that now we'll click add we would like
to sign in without a Microsoft account
we'll click local account easy enough
okay we'll hit finish so we can manage
this to the administrator account put it
in the administrator group we're going
to sign out if you want to um back up
any files probably now is a good time so
let's pretend fre is the Microsoft
account and PC is the local account we
want to sign into the local account get
that set up and then delete the um
Microsoft account uncheck all these
options so once we've signed into our
our new main account which is a local
account we can go ahead and go in here
and we can just click
remove okay and then okay you can go
into the users folder and actually
delete the old user folder as well right
here local account and we don't have to
deal with all the windows BS
[Music]
when you sign in here's where It'll ask
you if you want to sync your Microsoft
account to all apps please do not press
next just click Microsoft apps only all
right now I'll show you guys how to
reinstall Windows grab that USB stick
handy and plug it in double clicking on
reinstall you can choose whether you
want Windows 10 or Windows 11 and it's
going to go ahead and download and open
the media creation
tool we don't want to upgrade the PC we
want to create an installation media
okay so we just go ahead and press next
we can change this later so I'm just
going to click Next USB flash drive
that's what we want go ahead and press
next and that's definitely my USB as you
can see so we go ahead and press
next the USB is ready go ahead and click
finish should look like that double
click on auto unattended enter the name
that you actually like and then press
enter Then enter USB drive letter
doesn't matter if it's it's lower case
or up a case and press enter will
actually open that drive for you with
create and the auto unattended file
there for you click on network driver
please select the operating system
you're going to use I'll let it download
we need to extract this okay drag this
to our USB to save a little bit of time
make sure we've got the windows
optimization pack in there we click this
PC and then if you've got some other
drives that you don't want touched or
wiped it' probably be a really good idea
renaming them I'm just going to call
these games rename our C drive now this
is the windows Drive C drive is always
the Windows drive right I'm just going
to rename it delete me just so we don't
get
confused and we go ahead and um wipe the
partitions so we're pretty much ready to
go also if you haven't backed up any
files at this point too make sure you
back up any personal files all right
we're in BIOS and every bias will look a
little different we just need to find
the boot menu like we want to be kind of
selecting something like that if you
select something and it doesn't work
just come back into bias and try again
we need to boot to the USB stick now now
if you're on a laptop the auto attender
doesn't work at all quite simply up
upgrade from home to Pro and I'll be
showing that later on in this video for
the purpose of this video will be
installing a home so I can show that
method most of you I'd recommend just
going straight to Pro you can get a pro
key quite cheap I'm affiliated with a um
a website Pro gives you a few more
options which is nice I would recommend
Pro especially if you do want to sort of
permanently disable updates at some
point you for that specific SCP script
you will need to be using Pro we've
named our drive we need to be careful
here with the the numbers right delete
me drive is Windows Drive which is the
drive we want to delete and reinstall
Windows on that's connected to drive
zero and games is connected to drive 1
we do not want to touch drive one
whatsoever so we need to wipe Drive zero
so we can simply this is the easiest way
go ahead and we can delete all these
here if you're unsure just take your
time make sure you delete all the
partitions I've deleted all of them and
then you should be left with a complete
clean wiped drive so you can start you
can install fresh on for the advanced
users you can enter command prop from
this window you hold shift and then
press F10 you would simply go to um dis
part type list with a space disk and
enter all right and as long as you know
sort of what you're doing Drive zero was
a Windows drive we we wiped already I
don't want most of you doing it this way
because you can quite easily get this
wrong and wipe the wrong thing select
this
zero and you can just type clean you
just type clean and press enter
right and it'll clean the disc you can
simply gra backit or close the command
prop window right now if we go ahead and
click refresh here it's wiped the drive
for us so technically we wouldn't have
to come in here and and delete every
partition and either way honestly is
fine we need to make sure that we select
the right drive if we select games drive
now it'll more than likely keep the
files we have on this drive and actually
install Windows on that that would be
quite messy we don't want to do that
we're going to select the drive that we
wiped Drive zero and then just hit next
next that's all you need to
do if you particularly have an MSI board
the motherboard will keep booting into
the USB stick after that process where
it's about to restart when it's
restarting you might need to go back to
bios and change the boot order don't
have to worry about disconnecting the
ethernet cable here the auto unattended
will will bypass all of that stuff
Windows updates will probably install a
generic uh graphics driver but that's
fine I've got a bit of a process here
with um display driver and installer so
I'll show you guys that
[Music]
we have do you want to allow this PC to
be discovered by other PC and devices on
this network it doesn't matter if you
the quick Les yes or no you can actually
change this option later now Windows is
going to actually do its thing and
download um drivers and stuff like that
from the network it won't necessarily
always update Windows depending if you
depending if you install home or Pro for
now just for the purpose of this video
I'm going to just pause updates just so
they don't get in a way because we will
be uh fully updating Windows this will
not stop driver um installs and updates
when you first install your windows they
go to GitHub and download the
optimization pack again or we can just
grab it off our USB stick here some of
you actually might not have internet at
this stage now most drivers from the
motherboard website should be a setup XE
file now I will show you guys a
different method just in case the
motherboard vendors are stupid enough to
just give you INF files Windows driver
updates not Windows updates we have
Windows updates pause right now Windows
driver updates will install random uh
software that you might have plugged in
and whatnot sometimes you can opt out
sometimes you can't so my old Alienware
monitor wouldn't let me opt out I'd have
to manually uninstall all the Alienware
stuff um regarding razor cuz I have a
razor Mouse plugged in right now it's
picked that up and the the Windows
updates driver updates of gone ahead and
grabbed that now specifically for M if
most modern M have an onboard
profile I've already installed sign apps
and set my mouse up to the way I like it
and then uninstalled it so I actually
don't need to install it on on this uh
system so we're just going to go ahead
and close this here this is sort of what
it looks like if you were to download a
driver sometimes which is very
frustrating cuz a lot of people don't
know what to do with this Windows key
and X device manager is probably the
quickest way network adapters now
obviously there is a built-in driver in
the default Windows for these specific
cards but that might not be the case for
you guys and you guys might be left with
these INF files not CIS files you have
no idea what to do with so it might
simply say under network adapters or
other devices a network controller or
unknown network controller right click
click that and go update driver
browse browse again wherever your the
folder is and then you can just click
next and it'll install the drivers so
that's how to do it with the INF ands
files CIS files now we're up to set up
um do a simple um activation from home
to Pro why have I made this script when
you could simply just put in your key
you've bought from Microsoft or you know
a third party vendor because sometimes
it won't work so that's why I sort of
made this to make make life a little bit
easier for some of you guys that are
trying to enter a pro key and it's not
working or you might just want to go to
Pro for free even if you don't want to
buy a key but you're happy with a
watermark coming up so the process is
basically entering a generic key and
offline and it will upgrade for you it's
going to prompt us to disable the
internet so we press any key to continue
it'll come up with Device Manager to
save time rather than unplugging the
ethernet cable we're just going to
disable anything Network related here
disable both of them for the purposes of
this video once you've done that it'll
say press new key to continue or press
space bar and now it will tell us to
enter this code this is an a generic key
for upgrading from home to Pro okay and
what a lot of people use in sort of
Enterprise you could manually type it in
if you want but just press right click
and paste or crl + V so we go ahead and
press next and it should be able to
upgrade flawlessly if it doesn't upgrade
you're probably connected to to the
internet or you might need to just give
the PC a restart and try again make sure
internet is off
should you bother activating at all yet
I would say yes and because if you do
have the um Watermark
overlay there are instances in some
games that have better latency running
in full screen you will actually not be
in um full screen you'll actually
technically be in a borderless window
mode go ahead and can get yourself a
cheap key if you like it gives me a
couple of dollars if we got to pay for
it though we go to check out enter the
the coupon we can actually we enter our
code Frey you can actually get a few
dollars off this so you end up spending
about $17 USD tip for you guys if you're
on 11 just buy a 10 Pro key these keys
are exactly the same Windows 10 and
windows 11 aren't a different operating
system Windows 11 is just Windows 10
with a facelift okay so save a bit of
money all right so say you've B that key
and you can go ahead and you could enter
that key in now key will be tied to your
motherboard you don't need need to save
the key anymore there's no point it's
tied to your motherboard ID which is
tied to the windows service so if you
ever reinstall Windows you're not going
to have to worry about this it's sort of
all automated which is quite nice date
language Orion time that's pretty
straightforward right basically I wanted
to cover all aspects of Windows and I
have seen some issues with Discord and
some other apps if time wasn't synced
correctly so remember and sync I really
highly recommend turning this off we
don't want anything sinking with windows
at all even if you are using a Microsoft
account please turn this off we don't
want anything constantly causing CPU
usage on network pinging that's going to
affect the gaming performance and it
might not seem like much even with
really good good systems but at the end
of the day all these little things add
up it can affect your frame rate a
little
bit signning info this one is pretty
important please turn this off this will
make sure that every time you reboot
your PC it is a proper reboot not sort
of a hybrid reboot every time you
restart your PC you want a clean
boot Map update anything that's going to
be constantly peing into the Microsoft
server and causing a little bit of CPU
usage we don't want so go ahead and turn
automatic updates off
startup apps pretty self-explanatory go
ahead and turn all of this off just to
let you guys know this will not turn
Windows Defender off this is just a
little notification tray icon that's all
it
is now background apps double click and
run that we've got background apps off
and background apps default like I said
with this guide everything is completely
revertible so you will always be given
the choice to go back if you need need
to and every skip script is independent
of each other and won't affect other
things and all scripts will have a
little recommended option next to them
just so you know which one you should be
selecting or not okay and then there's
also the default option which would be
what the default Windows would be when
you fresh install it now the background
app is simply just the uwp apps that
come with Windows on Windows 11 they've
actually taking this option completely
away but the registry key still works
which is quite nice it won't work for
everything some things like co-pilot and
widget and a couple of other things I
can't think off of the top of my head
but it will work for most uwp apps on
Windows 11 so we'll still be running
this on Windows 11 anyway even if we
don't have the menu prompt so I just
press one and then press enter and then
anything any script that may require a
restart for the optimization to work
we'll be given a little prompt to tell
you to restart now you don't have to
restart for for every single single one
The Prompt is just there to just sort of
remind you that if you've done a bunch
of changes it probably is time to
restart or say you wanted one to say you
didn't want to do any other
optimizations than just this one it
would encourage you to sort of restart
to tell you hey this won't work until
you have restarted the computer some of
them will work with signing out and
signing back in but just to keep things
simple I've just I've just said restart
to apply now I also did this because I
didn't want the force I didn't want the
Force the user into having to sign in
and out all the time or restarting all
the time a lot of you might want to run
through a bunch of these scripts really
quickly and then restart at the end and
that's totally fine also so we just
press any key now this will come up for
Windows 10 as you can see it's turned
that off which is quite nice I will run
this script back to default just to show
you how it works how these scripts work
basically most of these scripts will
work like this see now you can see
background apps are actually on qu we
selected on default now I'm going to
actually turn that back off because I
would highly recommend that being off
okay as you can see boom now like I said
you won't see this on Windows 11 CU
Windows 11 has taken the this
functionality away but the registry key
still works which is what what is
getting changed here so still apply it
for Windows 11
so next thing is Edge updates now go to
system and performance okay i' really
recommend turning off startup boost okay
turn off continue running in the
background while Microsoft Edge is
closed and for a lot of you that may be
having a web browser open when you're
gaming I'd recommend turning this off if
your web browser does slow down a bit
you will need to turn this back on but
as a general fun if there potential apps
that you might have open while your
playing games you should disable
Hardware acceleration for everything
there's some other cool options in here
efficiency mode but just a heads up this
might significantly significantly slow
down the web
browser so next one is Store updates
turn all this off otherwise the Windows
store will constantly be peeing the
internet constantly updating an app
let's go to Windows updates and pause so
we've already pause Windows updates and
something I'd highly recommend every
time you're finished with doing Windows
updates spam pause this these things
will constantly be pinging and running
in the background you could be in the
middle of the game get shot behind a
wall or we're doing all the uh Windows
store Microsoft store and the uwp app
updates we might as well just go ahead
and we'll um we'll update Windows as
well there is also view all optional
updates if you're interested an opto and
some driver updates I'm just going to
grab those but for now let's just get
all the wwp apps updated the Windows
store updated and uh Microsoft Windows
completely updated why just so we don't
run into any issues and bugs and also
just from a security standpoint it would
be a really good idea and if we do want
to sort of permanently disable updates
um it would be at least a good idea to
just get everything fully updated now of
course there are occasional updates that
come out from Microsoft that do break
and Bug things out um as a general rule
of thumb you will see quite a lot on the
internet people complaining and posting
about that but nine times out of 10 it
gets patched in a few weeks anyway so
there's no point sort of being paranoid
about updates you might as well just go
ahead and do
them is ready to fully update so we'll
just go ahead and press restart now
we'll go back to the store updates and
just make sure everything's turned off
in here and we will spam pause updates
if you specifically want to use Windows
10 and never ever get forced to upgrade
to Windows 11 in my on my board
specifically it's in here trusted
Computing I'll just go ahead and disable
it now for this video I will be showing
controller pulling rate and over
clocking the controller so I will be
coming in here and disabling secure boot
which should be in security if you're on
Windows 11 and play valerant you'll need
both of these turned on let's go to
installers so I have installers script
here we'll open that as you can see here
there's a bit of information on how you
should set up specifically certain apps
game launches programs and web browsers
ideally want to disable Hardware
acceleration turn off running at startup
and deactivate any overlays Hardware
acceleration on on certain launches or
programs or browsers while you have them
open while you're playing a game it can
slow down and and use um use a bit bit
of GPU usage I can't go too much in
depth obviously in this video but lower
GP usage and higher frame rate reduc
latency it's pretty straightforward now
it's not just High frame rates it's also
GP usage too and a lot of people
actually don't realize that so obviously
it's ideal to optimize your game
settings to achieve this so go in your
game settings and play around with them
sometimes you can look at GPU time try
to get that number down if you're kind
of stuck and you're not able to get that
number down by lowering the settings or
lowering the resolution or whatever you
probably need a faster graphics card 2
milliseconds for a graphics card time is
very very good okay you can check that
with overlays like MSI After Burner or
Nvidia overlays and stuff like that I
won't or some some games will let you
toggle that overlay like Call of Duty
will actually let you tockle that on on
or off in the settings further tuning
can be done via config files or launch
options now some some of these things
don't matter too much if you got really
really really good Hardware some of the
best stuff but every every few frame
counts and a lot of people want to set
up the the PC to get the max out of and
the most out of it so these are some
simple steps to follow if you want to
get the most out of it more so I want to
say medium to low end builds some of
this stuff really adds up and makes a
huge difference a lot of games will have
a config file or launch options I do
plan on bringing out a lot more game
optimization gues and I'll be covering
those things these installs are pretty
straightforward I don't believe I'm
going to need to go through all of them
I just will show you how they roughly
work some of these are silent installs
so I'll do steam just to show you um
some of these are silent installs so
it'll just install the app and you'll
see the icon on the desktop ready to go
that's already installed Spotify
unfortunately I've had to put separately
Spotify does not like to be installed
while running as admin now MSI off the
bur this is a really nice one and a lot
of these scripts I'll be doing separate
videos on this script in particular will
actually download C MSI After Burner
install MSI After Burner import configs
I have quite a nice little config layout
which is sort of help you guys get set
up and started so graphic so let's start
with a clean driver now you don't have
to do this it is fine to just go ahead
and install a driver on top of the
driver that you've got now it is
sometimes over killed to constantly use
display driver uninstaller every time
you want to uh update your driver now if
you want to roll back driver you will
have to use display driver on installer
I've made a really clean and easy easy
way of doing this uh Windows updates has
installed sort of an out ofd Nvidia
driver we we would obviously want to get
this updated let's say A system that
would need a display driver on instore
let's say a Windows system that's maybe
2 years old and has had multiple and
multiple driver installs and you feel
like you're not getting the performance
that you should be getting and things
are sort of getting a little bloated and
messed up in registry that's when it
would be and you don't want to reinstall
Windows that's it's a good idea to use
display driver uninstall so pretty
straightforward press yes so it'll
install dis play driver on installer
click extract it'll add two shortcuts
here press any key and it will actually
reboot us into safe mode open up uh safe
mode toggle click a boot and uncheck
safe boot click apply click okay now I
want you to click exit without restart
because we're not quite finished here
yet open display driver run installer
what's nice about this uh script is it
should have already done the settings
here for you so you don't have to worry
about it pro GPU whether you have an AMD
graphics card
Nvidia graphics card please select that
um if you're on a laptop you might be
using two so you might actually have an
AMD CPU and an Nvidia uh card on your
laptop so you probably want to do this
for both select one click clean and do
not restart and then select the other
clean and do not restart specifically
for me it's a desktop I don't have igpu
drivers installed I don't have to worry
about that I'm just going to select
Nvidia and clean and
restart Microsoft decided to change
wallpaper now we can delete these
shortcuts we actually don't need them
anymore let's go back to Graphics now we
have AMD driver if you have an AMD card
you can go ahead and you can just use
this this is amd's um software driver
and installer so it's it's going to find
the the graphics card that you have and
install the latest dri which is quite
nice and handy now as far as AMD
settings because I haven't had an AMD
graphics card for a little while what
I've done is just made a script which
will open your AMD control panel and
that's why I got an error message here I
don't currently have an AMD graphics
card the settings I would recommend
changing in the AMD control panel
virtual super resolution be careful with
stuff like this generally if you are
trying to downscale you might get a few
more frames but generally image uh
quality can be affected quite a little
bit with u radian super resolution so
some of you that might have a really
out-of-date graphics card and you're
trying to play on a 4K resolution you're
really struggling with frames you can
experiment with those uh some of this
Tech does look quite good if the image
is still but as soon as you're panning
and moving around and trying to spot out
enemies it's not very good so just be
careful with those ones these are the
things I would follow capping and they
still haven't fixed this yet I don't
understand why do not use any feature
that will cap frames in the AMD driver
input penalty is quite massive I did
test it and it's in an older video if
you do need a cap frames in a specific
title try to use ingame and if you can't
use ingame um there are options like
using an MSI after b or FPS cap okay
install Nvidia driver recommended an
Envy clean install all this is going to
do is grab the latest driver from um the
website download it and prompt you to
install it NB clean install it is a
really nice program but there is no
difference in stripping an Nvidia driver
versus just installing a normal Nvidia
driver okay now and there is no
difference in doing a minimal Nvidia
driver even even if it's through MV
clean install or just by normal means
and having GeForce experience installed
at all gForce experience actually isn't
bad look it has one or two things that
run in the background and I couple of
scheduled tasks but it'll only affect
latency and frame rates if you actually
have recording and replay buffering
turned on and in that case because the
card has such a good little chip in it
little encoder in it times out of 10
I've only ever seen about 10 frames lost
with recording or Shadow play uh with
using reasonable settings obviously
maybe if you had your bit rate turned
maxed out that could be a little
different now um another thing I'll
mention another thing that will affect
frame rate and lengthy quite a little
bit is NVIDIA filters I I would avoid
those you can lose about 100 frames at
least with with invid filters so got i'
mention that here so either r nine times
out of 10 of you are going to want the
top option invid driver and GeForce
experience if you don't use a GeForce
experience at all we can just opt out
GeForce experience and install that now
here's what's great about how this works
if you're worried that oh I might need
GeForce experience later you can
actually simply just go ahead and
download it and you don't have to
reinstall the driver at all so let's
just say I installed just the graphics
driver and then 2 weeks later I'm like I
really want to clip some of my my
gameplay no problem or I want to use
some of the features in here no problem
you don't even have to worry about it
don't worry about going ahead and um you
know display driver uninstaller and
reinstall the driver and select this you
can just go ahead to the web web page
and just download the latest GeForce
experience and install it now the driver
is installed sometimes it might actually
pump you for a restart all right so
we're logged in right now I would
recommend I would highly recommend
unchecking automatically optimized newly
added games and application if this is
checked there are some titles where it
will actually override your custom
Nvidia 3D application settings if you
forget or accidentally press skip uh
should be games and apps just make sure
you turn that off I like to check this I
don't like to get constantly bugged when
there's a driver update I like to just
manually check and do it when I'm ready
and I like to turn that off I don't like
any proms or anything popping up in my
way now Nvidia will be overhauling this
whole thing and the control panel at
some point I will cover that in a
separate video but how it works and the
features uh behind it are simply going
to be exactly the same it's just going
to be a different UI uh the scripts will
still work by them and if they're not I
will be updating them obviously I would
recommend having image scaling off I
want you to press alt Z what I like to
do is I like to turn highlights off
completely um another thing I will turn
off is uh game filter just so you can't
even toggle it on in game not much
really else to cover in here I do like
to turn broadcast live off cuz I'm never
going to use that everything else is is
pretty much personal preference at the
end of the day open up Nvidia settings
click yes we've got Nvidia settings on
Nvidia settings default and that's all
there is to it it's very very simple and
straightforward so let's turn Nvidia
settings on come up with a little
notification to say that it works it'll
open the Nvidia control panel for you
and you can finish off the other
settings that you want to take care of
so I will cover some basic things in
here most of the things should be done
not much to cover here other than
probably do need to talk about GPU and
display scaling oh there's a bit of a
delay difference GPU scaling is.3
millisecond slower than display some
you'll always want to be on display
unless you're using a monitor that is
display stream compression or has a
built-in edid even if it says display
you might not actually be at display so
I will try to show you an example of
that to know if you're using display
scaling or not this number and this
number need to be completely mat let's
just say you're playing stretched or
something for csgo or whatever cter
strike to so here's a good example see
how it's showing display scaling but
we're actually not display scaled so it
kind of Lies here a little bit so
something to keep an eye out on if
you're really particular about input lag
and you always want the sort of lowest
input lag N9 times out of 10 just
default native is display scaling now if
you're using a monitor with display
stream compression it will actually
always be display scaling it's pretty
straightforward there are other tools
and methods to using and forcing display
scaling but only works on certain
monitors and um it's very very in depth
and I don't want to get into it here um
these settings don't matter it's just
got to do with the scaling so if you are
not using native resolution it will just
go to aspect so um because I I like to
have like I'm always on display scaling
I'm just going to select no scaling
right I always want to just use native
and Native is uh is crisp I I would
rather be on a 1080p monitor than a 4k
monitor not on its native resolution
because of the way scaling works on what
itors and it's not very nice goner the
day of the CRT okay this setting
actually doesn't work so it doesn't
matter you can have it checked on or off
it generally doesn't doesn't make a
difference honestly if you're not able
to get the most out of your monitor
don't get image quite looking how you
like play around with these they don't
affect input lag frames or latency or
anything so it's personal preference
come in here make sure some of you some
of you on your gaming monitors will be
selected on um sort of a TV Resolution
TV Ed ID like please don't use scroll
down make sure you're in P and use the
top one the top one will be your native
resolution you want to be on your native
resolution and crank up the refresh rate
using a password capture card if I
wasn't I would see 360 H here okay so
just make sure you Max that out now some
monitors will support 10 or 12bit color
that can be a nice thing to turn on as
well the physx chip on the card is
always going to be faster so just select
it to your graphics card honestly and
like none of you are really going to be
playing physx games they don't really do
physic anymore it's sort of an updated
thing now ECC State I need to mention
this here most of you won't have this
unless you have a 49 there might be some
cards like
Titan if you're a power user and you're
a gamer please turn this off remember
last time I benchmarked it might have
been about 15 frames or so um I know
that's not huge for someone who has a
4090 but it's still something so just
make sure you have it turned off a lot
of people will go to adjust image
settings with preview they'll go ahead
and click this one and turn it the
performance this will override any
settings you have changed in here it is
a preset so I have changed the registry
key on purpose with this Nvidia settings
script to avoid users doing that so
hopefully they'll come in here and see
it's already done so they won't touch it
because there's going to be a lots of
people will follow this guide and that
might do that but they'll come in here
and say it's already done so they won't
worry about it but don't play with this
cuz this is completely separate to this
and this is just a preset for this so
now I will admit my Nvidia control panel
profile is very very aggressive overly
aggressive uh to the point where I
actually don't personally run this I
will personally run with vsync on
application setting you can simply
toggle it on and off in game and there
will be some applications and video
recording software that will give out
screen tearing if it is not set to
application setting so if you have it
set to off in here you open the game you
can't toggle on and off even if it's on
in game it gets overridden here there's
another thing that actually gets
overridden on some titles antitropical
tering now I like to personally run
application controlled that way in the
game I can decide whether to run it at
Max or minimum uh most power users would
just have this off and call it a day and
not care but there are some titles I
can't play with it of Kovac actually
surprising being one of them the
textures look horrible and this will
override the game settings right now
there are a bunch of things in here that
won't override the game settings and the
game will just do its own thing and
ignore this but those are the two
particular ones that I need to mention
that I like to have different set to
this profile even low Lany mode at Ultra
this actually doesn't work like if a
game doesn't have if the game's not
supported like that's why Nvidia
recommend it off because it has to be be
a um reflex supported game and you have
to physically toggle it on in the game
it has to be built in the game engine to
work Nvidia added this so it could
technically work on game engines that
didn't have reflex built in but it
actually doesn't work for those games
anyway so there are a couple of extra
things that are actually done with this
Nvidia profile there's a lot of stuff in
here that doesn't do anything or could
potentially make something worse so
please don't go down that rabbit hole
but the extra things that I have changed
in here is Cuda Force P2 St all this
does is when you're using GeForce
experience or OBS or streamlabs and
recording uh the graphics card has sort
of a safety measure which will downclock
the memory by 500 MHz this turns that
off so it never down clocks at all um
resize bar now wly enough even if you
don't have a supported resize bar system
people have turned this setting on and
got a gain in frames so this is sort of
force resize bar on um I will be doing
like I said a separate video on each
individual script and I'll be doing an
indidual individual Invidia optimization
guide and I will talk about all these
different settings and what they do and
where they should be set in a certain
way if you're an obsessed lengthy frame
rate power user these are the settings
you'd probably want to run I also like
to turn off show notification tray icon
my registry script will do that just to
let you know but I just thought I would
mention it here resolution refresh rate
so I've included this because if you're
on an AMD card they don't allow you're
not able to change your refresh rate or
resolution through the AMD control panel
you kind of need to do it through the
window setting that's why this is here
lot of you guys on the um AMD graphics
cards you'll want to change your your uh
resolution here and your refresh rate as
well so to change the refresh rate go to
Advanced uh space settings and you can
change your refresh rate
here TS window so hags there was a small
period of time when Modern Warfare 2 was
out I was telling everyone want to turn
this off cuz they got 10 more frames no
one's playing that game anymore and it
doesn't matter just turn it on nine
times out of 10 you're going to get one
or two more frames in in a game that
you're playing so it's just something to
turn on and not worry about it uh length
for window mod so I'll show that in a
little bit go ahead and turn that on and
give you a little bit lower latency uh
in winded mode games
we can go sound settings for Windows and
the reason why sound was put here if
you've used clean driver this will get
reset so let's go ahead and do our sound
settings now I personally just like to
disable everything that I'm not using
and then I like to right click to
uncheck show disable devices if you if
you can try to run two channel 24-bit
48,000 HZ some of you with a USB device
you might be forced just using that
leave exclusive mode default because
some games might get a completely
different like pitch level for the game
so like for the microphone settings like
obviously like that you don't have to
worry about that but that'll be in
playback right so just leaving this on
let's say we play a really old title
like a really ancient title that's like
15 years old and it was actually coded
in channel 16bit 48
4400 htz CD quality if we have that
unchecked and we're using this setting
it will force this setting it will
probably do some resampling and you'll
get sort of uh you probably won't notice
to the year but it'll actually be a
slightly different pH so there is sound
enhancements for some of you that do
have it if you don't have this there is
a way to add it back I put that on my
to-do list so you guys will see it up
there on GitHub you'll see it in here
I'll put it actually I'll put it in the
sound script loudness Equalization can
be quite overpowered in some FPS titles
and all it's doing is compressing the
audio and making everything sort of the
same level depending on the setting that
you run so that would be the most
aggressive sound level so the wind would
be the same volume as like a um you know
playe on in the sky type of thing that's
I find that a little bit aggressive I
just like the default setting like
there's a couple other things in here
you're probably asking should I change
this my my registry script would would
change this to no sounds and um do
nothing so set it 2 one now we have a
directex install go ahead and accept and
then hit next and install directex now
generally you don't have to worry about
installing C++ packages and directex but
there are some stupid programs that will
actually install themselves without in
installing the dependencies of the
certain packages that they need and you
can have errors opening them so this
will just take care of any of that just
in case you guys have any issues I think
we're on to the last ones now now if you
already have these installed it's fine
it'll just go through really quickly and
either just repair them or check that
they're already installed or maybe even
update another thing I need to mention
so free sync g-sync or variable refresh
rate now the Nvidia settings will
automatically turn off g-sync you may
have noticed g-sync is more of a
preference thing as far as when I've
measured monitors that have variable
refresher I've had a different couple of
monitors that I've measured them with
with gsync on or off or variable refresh
rate on and off or specifically on my
AMD card it was an AMD free sync monitor
that was a 390 H 1080p monitor my 6900
XT uh you're only looking at about3 of a
millisecond with with GYN on VR vrr on
or amd3 sync on so it's not a big deal I
like I said these are sort of the
aggressive settings so people that just
want the absolute lowest lowest lowest
lengthy and they don't care about screen
tanning or tearing o they've got already
a really high refresh rate monitor and
they're already getting higher frames
and you can't really the perceivable
tears really aren't there as much
they're still there but they you just
can't see them as much so uh if you
decide to turn gsync back on that is
fine it is not the end of the world same
with GP scaling but if you wanted to be
picky about having the lowest latency
you'd have those things off okay now we
can finally get it's optimizing windows
so we got the taskbar quite a little bit
bloated and the start menu quite a
little bit bloated it's sort of annoying
it doesn't come with a clean template
this one won't in uninstall anything
it'll just uh toggle it for you now this
one is going to restart Explorer so
don't freak out if um your screen
flashes it kind of has to restart
Explorer to load the U start menu and
taskbar get it to update really clean
taskbar really clean start menu I kind
of wish Windows would come don't like
that by default I just I'm not I'm not
going to go too in depth with all these
scripts but I will show you this one we
can put everything back to default which
is nice as you can see here everything's
going back to default Done Works forly
on Windows 10 and windows 11
[Music]
start menu shortcuts this is a nice one
and I'll go on a little bit more depth
later but have you haven't you always
been annoyed that some programs put
themselves in folders the shortcuts and
you just want them all cleanly in here
well you can you can quite easily do
that it's going to add start menu
shortcut one and start menu shortcut two
in there's two locations well there is
one more location but it doesn't get
really used that often so it's I haven't
included it in here but these are the
two locations for your start menu
shortcuts so they'll actually be in your
start menu if you scroll down if you
want to modify your start menu a little
bit take a little bit more control
because some of these things are
actually like let you remove it from the
start menu which is kind of annoying
right on modifier so we'll open both of
these folders all let's have a look at
seven zip just as an example now there's
some things I would be careful just uh
don't if you remove those ones these
ones and these ones that are highlighted
you will break some window shortcuts
through the start menu so you don't
remove those this is an example so we'
see seven like that that's that's ugly
like I I don't want that there I'll open
the folder I'll cut that file and I'll
paste that file here you can see that
that's a lot cleaner right so you can
take control back from your start menu
um without having to use anything third
party now co-pilot Windows 11 things I
will show you that too um there wasn't
really a way to natively remove and
uninstall it without it still running in
the background now
um at the time I was working on it now
they they recently did add it in the
task taskbar menu but um even if you
toggled it off um in the task bar menu
now which they recently added that uh it
it's kind of still running in the
background so this would give a little
bit more control back so I'll run this
anyway on 10 but it's not going to
affect anything cobal out it's not
installed
widget same thing here I believe this
only yeah this only applies to Windows
11 I'll run it anyway I'll just turn
widgets off completely now yes you can
turn widgets off from the
taskbar uh personalization settings but
it actually still runs in the background
so this will actually stop it from being
in the taskbar and stop it from running
in the background after a restart which
is
[Music]
nice now we've got game mode always just
leave this on by default there are some
people and you might see on the forums
we say turn it off for OBS specifically
that is the thing of the past game bar
this is a nice one so on Windows 10 they
give you the option to disable it
through the setting Windows 11 they
don't and the registry keys don't work
to disable it anymore instead of that
all this script is going to do is add
the registry keys for Windows 10 to
disable it and remove the app I will
press Windows key and G and we've got
game mod unless you're specifically
using this to talk to your console
buddies through the app remove it it's
caused lots of issues for certain games
in the past so just just remove it you
don't want any kind of overlays over the
game game bar off and restart to apply
now it's going to come up with the
Windows 10 setting on Windows 11 it'll
come up with this but obviously you
won't have the setting to enable and
disable game bar you'll only have the
controller the setting but you will see
you will press Windows key and Game Bar
is not going to pop up that's how you
can confirm that it's actually been sort
of uninstalled and you can quite simply
reinstall it let's reinstall it so just
to show you guys like you will see that
game bar is actually not installed here
right it's gone we can install it back
everything is reversible okay apply
there is Game Bar it's back press
Windows keyg went back some of you might
be using it to park your calls on a 7950
X ready but please just just set um cppc
to cash in by us instead
[Music]
right pointed prec I need to talk about
Mouse acceleration and I'm going to go a
little bit more in depth with mouse
acceleration in Hardware you always want
enhanced point of precision off you
really especially if you're getting into
PC gaming uh for the first time please
please just like turn mouse acceleration
off and um I really highly recommend
always using 100% scaling in Windows
I'll get a little bit more in depth in
why to use 100% % scaling windows but
you will get mouse acceleration if
you're not using 100% scaling right so
I'm leaving it at this just for the this
video so you guys can see a little bit
better power plan this is a really nice
one this will actually take care of all
of the P this is going to import the
ultimate performance power plan which is
cuz I didn't want to really rely on any
sort of hacked third party files with
this gu at all right so we are importing
the windows ultimate power plan and we
are changing all the settings that you
can change cuz there a couple of change
couple of settings that don't get
changed like hibernate going to import
the power plant it will delete the other
power plans why because windows will
randomly switch them it has done that
for many people before right we always
want to use the high performance power
plan which is ultimate power plan which
is a little bit better it's going to
also change some of the settings of the
power plan some settings that are s of
left on still so
hibernate um you know sort of Lock and
sleep because I really recommend don't
using those settings I really recommend
not to use those settings on a on a
power system um a lot of the time the
windows actually won't boot up properly
and you'll have bugs and errors just
just do a hard restart we have a solid
set drives now restarting is very very
quick or just booting up your PC is very
very quick
couple extra things that probably don't
apply to Windows anymore like power
thring but to add it anyway un parking
cares uh I believe this doesn't apply
anymore if you have um maybe C States
off in bias now but it's just a nice
thing to
do um and yeah just little things and
also this will take care of laptop stuff
as well which is nice air plan on Boom
okay rest restart the plan okay and it
will show this and every all the
settings are done everything is done
which is nice don't need to manually go
through and do it right all this stuff
is done all set performance you'll find
the same on a laptop as well but there's
a lot of placebo around this one um back
in the day on really really hold
Hardware people would have Windows Media
Player open while they were playing
Counterstrike 1.6 and it would boost
your frames a lot like a lot um all it
is is is how quickly Windows refreshes
and updates with the CPU so use this
ancient app just to show you guys so at
the moment it's at its slowest right so
a power users would you want this maxed
out is it going to improve your frames
not really will improve driver ly you
will improve frames on a really really
low-end system maybe maybe there's
something nice to do now you might think
oh no this is causing issues with my PC
or input lag it's not if you have
something chromium open like Edge or
Discord or Chrome while you're playing a
game this is going to be maxed out
anyway right so anyway so you can Max it
out with this program don't use this
program I have a and this is really nice
cuz this actually doesn't download
anything um and I'm going to share this
on the forums too um all this is going
to do is it is going to create a CS file
compile the Cs file make a service and
install the service so the reason why it
opens task manager you can confirm that
um time resolution is installed and
let's open this just to confirm we've
maxed it out here we're running the
lowest so chromium anything chromium
would actually do the same if we had so
if I opened Edge right now it would do
the same but it's just nice to have cuz
sometimes I don't have Discord Chrome
open while I'm gaming in and there's an
easy way to uninstall it if you guys
genuinely don't like it or you want to
you know go back to a power like you're
using a laptop and all of a sudden you
you want to be concerned about power
saving like you can turn it off so now
it's completely gone as you can see
which is nice here's another big one
core isolation turn this off if you're
really really really concerned and
paranoid about security like obviously
just leave it on but it does it is quite
CP toxic having this so I'm on and
something that I will mention really
quickly if you do ever use my security
script when you turn security back on it
will turn everything back on so you
might want to manually toggle this off
again all right we'll get to that other
script later but most of you should turn
this
[Music]
off all right so registry what what is
this all the registry optimization
manually do in here for a power user and
all the things you can manually do in
here for a power user okay like that is
it there might be one or two more things
that can't be natively done but that has
been um documented in here so can't do
natively there we go this will take care
of everything so I'll show you guys how
that works let's go ahead and run the
registry one boom may need to restart
for Explorer to fully refresh and now we
have absolutely every suiz done for the
control panel and the immersive control
panel so I I'll try to give you guys an
example he's turned off everything is
done everything everything and anything
you want to change you can quite easily
change or if you have any issues with it
you can just go back to the
revert sign out lock screen this one uh
is not doesn't really bother me on
Windows 11 more specifically on Windows
10 on Windows 11 is is annoying too
there is more than just the sign out
screen so like you can quite as like
change this right there is another
hidden sort of sign out screen it is it
is a lock screen so I'll show you what
that looks like lock screen right so
this is a lock screen this is actually
believe it or not separate to the image
that you saw before and this one is
actually a pain to be able to change and
you can CH I've got you the option to be
able to change it back to default as
well so go ahead and run that all right
start to apply I we just sign out
instead all right so sign screen is
black which which you can just change in
the immersive control panel but the lock
screen specifically lock screen's black
and sometimes you will see this when you
boot into windows and if it's an ugly
image it's not so nice so
we're up to Edge this one was really
painful um they've made it quite
difficult to uninstall it when you run
the enable script it'll simply just
reenable it uh it reinstall it and
everything will work flawlessly so you
don't have to worry but it's all about
sort of taking back control like don't
force me to have Edge on my PC if I
don't want it there I don't want it
there so that's what this script was
made for I I technically really don't
like Edge I don't like anything on the
PC that I don't use uh i1 for control
this is going to uninstall Edge Edge
completely I say restart to apply you
won't restart right now but as you see
like all three all three are gone check
the immersive control panel too like all
three are gone completely they very
nice and the revert option works
flawlessly so if you guys need it back
or you have an app that doesn't seem to
be running it's probably why now blow so
we could individually go through through
the bloatware so I've got blare apps
here right got these couple blare apps
we have here like one drive Health tools
uh remote desktop connection that update
we could technically remove not really
needed bunch of features we don't need
bunch of stuff here we don't need a
bunch of stuff here we don't need so
opening BL workare we've got a lot of
options here it might seem confusing but
it's pretty straightforward we've got
exit all right so that's going to just
take us out we got remove all BL Weare
this one is very very aggressive like
very aggressive like it will remove
everything this this this and this like
everything all right um now that's not
really practical because a lot of you
want to use paint photos and notepad
just little things like that like right
clicking the desktop and be able to
create a new test text document or a bit
map image or something um you know or
just opening a photo so I've got that
option to be able to reinstall it again
um and it's obviously not practical a
lot of you might want to use Xbox game
pass or the store some of you will need
the store for certain things so let's
say that you want the calcul app you
could just install store you want the
calculator app back or or a certain app
like mail just just install Store and
download it through the Microsoft store
right now nothing else will be installed
so basically I wanted an option to be
able to revert everything go ahead and
we'll remove all the blare so we Press
Start number two and then press
enter so if You' run this script it'
probably be a really good idea to
restart to apply it'll Loop you back to
this menu cuz some of you guys might not
need to use option three as well so
Now's the Time to use option three
there some links might bug out like
check this out so uh going back to the
wp scaling uh shortcut you'll see that
it sort of pops up like that's pretty
normal don't worry about it just click
internet browser and okay it'll go back
to how it was let's go back to blockware
apps everything's completely gone it
will remove all of these some of these
he might actually want on now it should
have removed smv I'm surprised it
didn't of all the but WS here too so
these ones the ones that are in the
Legacy control panel will actually shop
in here too the way Windows works it's
silly blare features here's another
thing as well you can see optional
feature hist stre all these got got
removed she some you guys might actually
need to have toggled on so specifically
here for some games you actually might
need these two toggled on if the game or
app is smart enough it will tell you and
automatically enable it but that's not
always the case for all apps really
ancient games I was playing Diablo 1 the
other day I did turn this on by default
but that's probably because it was a
good old game mod and good old game will
actually like do things like that to
make sure apps will work but you may
need this on and also like media
features you might need on like which
Windows Media Player you you also you
need to toggle it on in here and you
also need to toggle it on in here as
well there have been there have been
some apps to weirdly rely on the Legacy
Media I can't live without paint photos
notepad so let's go ahead and re install
that now it'll come up with a little uh
message here
now paint is different on Windows 10 and
windows 11 so some of you may get an
error message on Windows 11 I'll show
you that here in this case we've got the
error message on Windows 10 because the
way Windows is built and you'll see in a
little bit it can be quite buggy when
adding and removing features not so much
removing features adding features back
it can be quite a little bit buggy so
what we'll need to do here just read the
prompt there we're going to have to
restart the computer computer so I'm
just going to restart the computer and
then we can rerun the script and then we
can reinstall paint and we'll try number
three again now usually after we restart
a workflow OB see I mean worst case
scenario maybe you have to restart twice
but as you can see it looks like it's
going through now sometimes CS a little
start and takes a little
time as we can see there it worked fine
so we just go ahead and press okay
worked fine after re restart restart
when Windows does magic wonders you
think that would fix their operating
system by so now it's going to so we've
already done painting it'll be doing
photos and notepad right now say you
wanted calculator back in particular
just any sort of app you just go ahead
and install the store all right so hore
number four and say restart to apply but
I'm not going to restart here but it
might bug out without restarting we can
just go ahead and search calculator now
when you actually uninstall these apps
they're never actually truly gone only
third party ones that you install will
be truly gone when you uninstall them
the default ones that come with Windows
they've kind of made it like the Legacy
feature so whereas like you can just
toggle them on on and off so that's how
they've sort of done it so go ahead and
get the default Windows calculator as an
example so you wanted to particularly
get this one as an example I have tested
a couple Xbox game um live Xbox pass
games with this and and it worked fine
just having the store installed but um
there might be some issues so let's say
you are maybe having some issues you can
install um the all all of the wp apps
right all of the V on so this put
everything back to factory on how
originally was it install all the wp
apps
right now I just show you that all the
apps are back to the to default right so
everything is completely back to default
just in case any of you guys have issues
so there might be like a certain Xbox uh
Game Pass game that might rely on the
console companion or or live or
something like that so just in case you
can easily talk all these back on but if
you want to go back to a vanilla it's a
little bit more complicated than that
because Windows is quite buggy
installing multiple of them multiple of
them at once which is quite annoying uwp
features we're up the number six right
so what I have here is just a list and a
list of the vanilla ones that are
installed so if you do want to add it
back to sort of a vanilla State you can
you can just add them back but the only
ones that I can see for most Gamers out
there having an issue with a certain
title might be uh media player if that's
the case so you need to add a couple of
things in here like you can you can go
on the history to see which what you've
removed what you haven't but so you need
to add something back please do it
manually I did have scripts that would
add all these back at once but Windows
is completely bugged and it will not
like it won't inst like a lot of these
need to restart you have to do one at a
time which is very frustrating add a
feature backs go ahead and add it and
you want something else like word pad
add it if it bugs out you might have to
do them individually between restarts
Legacy features we already covered that
there there's the vanilla list for the
Legacy features so if you want to add it
back to a vanilla State this one's
pretty nice oh in a script you have to
do them individually between restarts
but if you weirdly enough if you want to
toggle a bunch of these on and then
restart it it's fine all at once but
yeah they should get you guys out of
trouble if you want to put it back to a
van estate unfortunately this is the
only way I could do it so now these are
pretty straightforward if you want one
drive back um remote desktop connection
same thing again pretty straightforward
and pretty quick and Legacy Snipping
Tool so some people can't live without
the Legacy Snipping Tool you can't in
install this on Windows 11 you can only
install this on Windows 10 but some
people can't live without it and same
sort of thing here there we go uh this
is rough what it should look like on
Windows 10 um maybe unless you have
something installed like a game watch
running in the background or something
like that that which should be taken
care of soon to
like e
order runs now I made this script in a
way to sort of do half of the work for
you um it's going to remove any startup
tasks it's going to disable Chrome
Services Edge Services um it's going to
disable those uh scheduled tasks and
just anything so that's something I got
really annoyed on doing going into Auto
runs and having to constantly turn them
off again um so I sort of made a script
where it would do those things and
download and run auto runs most of you
out there be very very careful with this
tool if you're not sure just please
don't touch it if you play with the
driver tab you can actually leave
yourself with an unrecoverable OS but
anyway so if you see anything on the log
on like here like game launchers that
you might have installed like you know
like battl net running on Startup or
anything like that that you don't you
can delete these don't touch these as a
vanilla Windows ones but if you had any
startup tasks on your original
install they will no longer be on
Startup so you may have to reinstall or
go into the app specifically and allow
them to run on Startup so I apologize
about that with that script but it was
sort of the only way to do it so let's
go start up here see has there's
absolutely nothing here so maybe if you
had something like a a go XLR or a
stream you may need to go into the
setting and get it to run on Startup
again or just reinstall it looking at
Auto runs be really really careful with
this this is more for power users um I
would have liked to have just put this
in the
advanced but it's kind of relevant for
checking background tasks that might be
running that you're not sure why and you
don't have the option in startup the
startup tab to get rid of right so and
you're like why why is this stuff
running you want to get rid of it so
general ones I want you guys to check
are log on Don't Touch these three but
if there's anything else you can remove
it because you don't want you don't need
things to run in the background um
unless you're actually using them and
and more background tasks is going to
take away CPU usage from your game okay
just check log on and schedule tasks all
right so Auto Run's kind of taken care
of most of that and services here so the
script already sort of disabled the the
Chrome update dat Services is always run
in the background and update Chrome if
you want these back you can just
reinstall Chrome and they'll come back
that's fine you care about security and
you always want Chrome updated let's go
to clean up this one's quite nice this
one will open both temp folders you can
and you can go ahead and you can um
delete all this as well we'll go ahead
and do this clean up and if you want to
sort of regularly do this if if a lot of
people ask me what should I do if I want
to clean up my PC regularly I would say
generally just like blow Weare apps uh
background tasks Auto runs in clean up
you just go through these um you know so
that's finished the disc clean up now is
a really good idea to do a restore point
if you're happy with how things are
don't fully rely on system restore
points but they can save you sometimes
and especially if you are going to be
playing with the
advanced you want to do a system restore
point and I would say at least use about
roughly around 10 gig okay that should
be more that enough so now it's on and
then I'm going to create a new one I
just call it back up
don't rely on this to revert everything
because it won't it'll just get you out
of a blue screen Loops okay that's all
it should be used for don't don't fully
trust it for anything else right let's
talk about Hardware real quick so Mouse
optimization this is going to install
Mouse movement recorder and as you can
see I have Mouse acceleration on we'
want this column lined up with this
column and the numbers to be the same
why do I have Mouse acceleration on so I
have a bit of a r of this so these are
all things you might need to do with
your mouse software specifically stream
polling rate may affect some PCS and
game engines now they have done a bit of
work on Windows 11 with really high
polling rates like 4K and 8K but there
some game engines that still might not
work or accept it very well so this is a
very controversial topic it doesn't
matter too much it is user preference
but it is proven that higher DPI can
lower lcy a little bit it's same with
polling rate too right there's a certain
point of di diminishing returns too but
from my personal hands-on experience as
far as DPI that has been comfortable on
the desktop and game for me here are
some suggestions okay at least 400 DPI
for 1080p at least 800 DPI for 440p and
at least 1,600 DPI for 4K 1 1600 DPI
might see them a little excessive for 4K
for some people but I found um I I
noticed pixel skipping a lot more use
what you're comfortable with it doesn't
matter too much I've got point of
prision off why am I still getting
acceleration oh it must be scaling right
it is scaling
okay look at that back to normal now
this one's fairly important because I
had this happen to me on a laptop before
and when I was on my 4K gaming
monitor sending it to 100 in Windows
setting was not enough okay so let's go
back to oh by the way if you're using
this mouse movement recorder uh it will
display the incorrect polling rate that
you have if you are on Windows 11
because of the mouse fix that they did
only use this program not for measuring
polling r just to check uh Mouse
acceleration this won't fix things if
you're on a laptop or 4K sometime have
it to set to 100 here but in game it
would actually be doing 125 you can
actually have this window open if you've
got another monitor open on another
monitor and check if you have Mouse
acceleration game now just keep in mind
sometimes when you initially spawn in
the game and it centers your cursor that
you might get you know some of this
going on right and this happens when I
go on the edge of the screen so that
that that's normal don't worry about
that but just generally when you're
playing right that's when you want to
check for acceleration so that actually
happens so that is why in the registry
script you saw and that is why
particularly with this link you want to
go ahead and manually set that so that
never happens okay it'll say something
like
225% even though it's
not that is a bug that they need to fix
and they haven't fixed yet since for
real look at that
225 it's not at 22 or at 100 and don't
worry about that just worry about what's
in here now Mouse polling rate if you
actually want to measure Mouse polling
rate I have some third party programs
that work but they're kind of flagged by
Defender so I've just decided to use an
in in web browser one and this one will
get you out of trouble as you can see
this one specifically talking sort about
hardware and setting up your Hardware
correctly right and this is some
suggestions now there are a lot of good
YouTubers out there that are using um
the lat tool to measure and the X lat
and xlat tool to measure Mouse latency
but if you wanted to be pickier about uh
choosing a new gaming mouse arings is
pretty good here a link directly to it
uh some of the lowest lowest lensy
gaming Ms that are out right now uh
Wireless has become pretty competitive
um this endgame 8K is pretty insane just
keep in mind there are some games that
all systems if you've got a medium to
lower end system that might not agree
with 8K like lower lower end system will
struggle with 8K and you will have high
CPU usage and that will affect your
frame rate right but really good system
on Windows 11 shouldn't have too many
issues in most game titles unless some
game engines don't agree with it yeah I
mean take it with a grain of salt every
every uh everyone has a different
testing methodology so I've just got
this generic um PS5 controller just just
to Showcase in this video I'm not really
a controller player um but I wanted to
help out you guys that do cuz I know
there was a lot of you that play
controller out there that um you know
want to be competitive so um probably go
go back to sounds Tab and when you've
plugged in your controller it will
always annoyingly sort of override the
sound device if you plan on keeping this
controller plugged into the same USB
port on your board this won't change and
your overclock won't change if you do
change controller or you do change USB
The Sounds tab will get reset and you
will have to reapply your overclock
right so I am just going to set the
microphone as default I'm going to
disable the controller microphone I am
going to set my sound device as default
and disable the controller so that
doesn't get in the way I'll show you
this uh cool polling rate test program
that I found there was another one that
I used to use but it would only measure
an Xbox driver and only measure the Xbox
controller so game p is pretty cool
press enter the index so this is just in
case you have multiple controllers right
so we've only got one 2,000 rotate the
left stick without stopping so what
we're going to do is it rotating as you
can see about 4 millisecond delay
roughly now that's 4 Mill second polling
that's not delay there will be other
delays on the PCB of the controller
itself but specifically polling rate so
we've got a polling rate Max average the
average will change a little bit
depending on how consistent I spin the
left stick right now that's not ideal
like 4 milliseconds versus 1 millisecond
if we were in 1,000 Herz it would be in
1 millisecond so that is a nice
difference shaving off 3 millisecs is
quite noticeable for inputs
unfortunately Xbox controllers are
locked at one 25 H polling rate and
overclocking your controller on an Xbox
controller doesn't work lot of people
think it does or go ahead and overclock
the USB port and think it works it
doesn't work you don't need to use DS4
to emulate an Xbox driver for a specific
game that doesn't work with your native
PlayStation controller and let's just
say you play Call of Duty or just games
that already work with a default
PlayStation driver why use something
third party and emulated a drive
wouldn't want to use it natively so it's
great to have a program that can quickly
test it so so let's overclock the
controller to 1,000 HZ and see if we can
improve latency really really quickly so
some of you might have issues with
higher polling rate okay I've seen a lot
of people even with really good Hardware
that have tried higher and have had
issues I'd recommend most of you to just
play on a th000 but if you know what
you're doing and you're willing to
experiment sure why not go ahead so what
we want to do is we want to go 1,00 H
filter on device yes then
yes install service and restart let
unplug the controller
plug it back in if we see green and 1
th000 we're good if it's red it's not
working all right so it's green and
1,000 we let's go you can see 1
millisecond a real clean 1 millisecond
obviously I wasn't very good with the
stick I should have probably used my
right hand to get a lot more even that
is a clean th000 H polling rate at 1
millisecond fortunately arings recently
changed their testing methodology so
that's very annoying there isn't
actually a graph on which keyboard has
the lowest input lag there you have to
go in the individual keyboard on this
web play Keep click gaming and whatever
is the highest score just go in and
check there we go so we've got best
connection 1.8 millisecond so that's the
woing right and the course hair itself
1.1 millisecond um and I I would say
this probably only because this is
actually an 8,000 H keyboard this with a
grain assault but at least you've got a
rough idea if you wanted to pick a
keyboard uh and with low delay there's a
few options there that you can look at
monitor Overdrive this one's fairly
important some basic things for you to
optimize your monitor and the monitor
settings physically on the monitor so um
enable overclock mode if you haven't
already most I've seen a lot of people
that haven't enabled their overclock
mode like they've got a 240 H that can
do a 280 H enable it and run to Ed hit
mode I don't care if you get the frame
rates or not it still lowers your delay
refresh rate of your monitor and frame
rate are completely separate from each
other um as far as when it comes to
latency right so run the highest refresh
rate that you can you also want to Max
overdrive like overdrive is like the
pixel sort of response times of the
monitor itself you can actually get a
little bit tiny lower delay and a better
feeling on the mouse tuning this right
ideally try to crank it up as much as
you can without causing overshoot or
reducing motion Clarity here's a quick
quick simple test blur Busters you can
probably put this in full screen if you
like and just look at the top UFO change
the overdrive your mod try to crank it
up all the way all the way as high as
you can uh so this is still clear so
it's higher the better but at the point
there's going to be a point where you
turn it up too much and this image is
when you fall it with your eyes is not
going to be clear anymore so be very
careful with that don't Crank It Up too
much but do consider playing with
monitor latency so if you want to talk
about monitor latency it's quite
interesting where in there's a weird
rough period where um you know an IPS is
still the lowest delay and that's
because these oleds that are coming out
they're not entirely high enough refresh
rate yet to
match or they haven't quite got the the
tuning right for it so like pixel
response times are separate from the
throughput latency right so oleds have
fixed pixel response times to the point
where they're very very clear but
throughput lcy isn't quite there yet now
that will change when we start to see
480 heds come out and I've already
confirmed and seen that there's a
YouTuber Hardware um monitors unboxed
their their main channel was Hardware
unboxed and and they tested the new 4K
240 hit monitor that can toggle to 1080p
480 H mode it's an OLED it had the
lowest lowest input lags
so but as far as wanting to pick out a
monitor uh if you wanted to just purely
look at latency it's a good website good
little chart there that you can look at
stuff um do take everything with a grain
of salt but a bit of a rough idea
Network buffer boo I don't want to get
into this too much uh long story short
you want to have a decent buffer blo uh
if your router doesn't have quality of
service considering consider getting a
router that does have quality of service
you want all this as low as possible so
uh my internet plan is not very good uh
that I don't really need higher I am
technically on 100 down and vo0 up but
my Edge router X is what I have my Edge
router X is actually using quality of
service right now to fix buffer blo but
some of these will not support really
fast internet plans like 1,000 down
1,000 up so be careful there as far as
anything else internet optimizations um
are are don't do anything um you know
changing your DNS will not lower your
ping it will help you load websites
faster or slower but it's not going to
change your ping generally if you can
just disable a the background tasks in
Windows and and pause updates and stuff
um that will help quite a lot and um
getting a buffer blade sorted but
everything else is all is all Placebo
and snake oil there's a nice bill guide
that I have I going to do a separate
topic on this I have done a video on
this before I'm going to do an updated
one but wanted a bit of a build guide
budget PC build guide all out PC build
guide without being stupid so Advanced I
want to give you guys a bit of a warning
this folder is a bit of a placebo folder
but a more user control user Choice
power user thing you know one thing that
I will mention though the security
script which disables Defender safely
and then you can toggle it back on quite
a nightmare to to code and make work um
there are some systems really oldd
systems that Windows Defender is quite C
toxic especially on Windows 11 that you
could actually get some some more frames
turning that off I'm really low those
highend systems I've only seen about 10
frames but this is more of a placebo
folder so your discretion advised most
of these scripts do have warnings to
them and one of them forces you to make
a system restore point just in case or
two of them do I thought I just
mentioned this here these are just
things that I I find it cool to toll on
and off and play around with so we have
network adapter this one's pretty
self-explanatory if you're on IP ipv4
and 85% of you out there probably are on
ipv4 um this is quite nice now if you're
on IPv6 please don't use this if you
don't have internet after running this
just go back to the default setting but
I'll show you what this I'll show you
guys what this does it'll disable
everything in here other than ip4 high
definition content protection this will
only work for NVIDIA if you ever got an
AMD card they actually give you the
option to natively do anytime this could
affect anyone as far as ly is concerned
is possibly using a pass through capture
card that doesn't let you natively
disable it so to sort of maybe make a
difference but the difference is so
minimal it has been measured by some
YouTubers be careful with this one
especially if you're on a laptop this
will always Force the Nvidia graphics
card to boost at its maximum so as an
example my card boost at 2800 MHz at its
maximum out of the box there are three
boost algorithms you've got GP boost um
like one to and three one is sleep mode
two is sort of like a sort of half mode
and my cart I believe it's like 2500 MHz
GP p 3 is 2800 MHz if I turn this on uh
it'll always Force 2800 MHz or whatever
my overclock is so my overclock is 3,000
MHz it'll always be 3,000 MHz and idling
on desktop is 120 wats always so be
careful with this one especially if you
have a overheating GPU or you're on a
laptop there's no sort of recommended
option in any of these scripts and
that's by design because these are more
Placebo scripts that are just cool
things to play around with uh nine times
out of 10 I would recommend having
multiplan overlay on and optimization
for window games on now we already
talked about optimization for window
games and we would have sort of already
done that before now um on Windows 11
you have the option not on Windows
10 now these kind of go hand inand to
work together one we can have it on
which would be my recommended two both
of them off or three def and default is
technically multiplayer overlay on and
optimization for Windows games off so
couple of options you can play around
with full screen optimizations too now
Windows patched after 17 Windows 1709
they patched to the point where you
don't have to force full screen
exclusive anymore to get low latency
full screen optimizations are actually
okay so when you run a game that isn't
direct X12 by default um generally
speaking when you're in just normal full
screen it's fine which is are full
screen optimizations but I wanted people
to have the option to be able to try out
full screen exclusive cuz I mean there
are some like you know some games like
when I play specifically play kovax I
will say that the mouse feels a t a
little bit better and Legacy flip which
is exclusive full screen and then there
are other games that don't feel good in
exclusive full screen that I would want
full screen optimizations on so and this
isn't actually measurable at all as far
as latency on the new windows Builds on
the older Windows builds it was it was
about a millisecond latency and you kind
of had to always run full screen
exclusive now you can actually enjoy the
benefit of alt tapping quicker um and
being able to see any volume overlay
over your game without having the added
latency it's a bit of information about
some other stuff so directx12 engines do
not support explosive full screen mode
and sometimes you may have to go to the
game compatitive Tab and and manually
disable full screen optimization
keyboard shortcut 90% of you will not
use this but I just thought it was cool
so what keyboard shortcuts off will do
is it'll disable all keyboard shortcuts
so your Windows media Keys it'll disable
any Windows keyboard shortcuts and to do
that also we have to rebound escape to
um you know equals right um now there
are there are some people out there that
have been quite annoyed with keyboard
shortcuts and windows and you can't
disable them all natively so that's why
I made this script there will be one or
two of you out there that would be
really annoyed You' be playing a certain
title and you'll accidentally press the
keyboard shortcut and onscreen keyboard
will come up which you can't natively
disable anymore by the way um even with
registry stuff now security this one
comes with a massive warning all right
massive massive warning okay there's a
few layers in this script in particular
um and most of you shouldn't be using
this because you're going to leave
yourself completely vulnerable but let's
get to it you don't have to use this
script to use it off you could actually
just use it for the feature to turn it
on so if you use Security on right now
it'll actually turn every window
security feature on everything which is
kind of nice as well so there's some
information you need to read these are
the things it's disabling so it's
literally disabling all Windows security
features I get enough request I might
make it just a separate defend Defender
one without disabling everything else
but this will leave the PC completely
vulnerable if uncomfortable please close
this window so like I said a lot of out
there don't want you using this please
be careful um you're on your own here
there's no support if you guys get
hacked or anything like that right we'll
press enter it'll go through step one
and ask us to please wait then it says
restarting to safe mode pressing the key
to restart so now it's going to restart
in safe mode so we're in safe mode now
we need to actually go and run the
script again and do step two so let's go
to security and we'll go security off
step two so we're in safe mode as you
can see we've got a little safe mode
thing so we'll go step two I'm in safe
mode so I'll go to step two press enter
the same exit is going to come up I just
wanted to give people plenty of warning
so they knew what they were doing and
we'll press enter
again so in my servic is disabled script
I've purposely left out um Windows
Defender as well um just because I this
is the only script that will affect any
Security on the PC wanted to keep
everything completely separately that's
quite nice it say press key to restart
and restart now we're back into Windows
now we will be running as admin all the
time so everything we run will be
running as admin um all security
settings will be off um you you guys saw
the list so I don't really need to talk
too much now the app isn't removed at
all you'll just get an eror message
anytime you try to go into any of the
settings okay pretty straightforward
just clean in blank none of it is
running smart screen isn't running
either none of the services are running
for Defender none of the drivers are
running Defender it's nice and clean
the let's go to updates so as you can
see here you want full control over your
operating system and you never want
Windows bugging you with updates ever
going to take full control the only way
to turn off updates permanently is with
Pro Windows Pro so we are using Windows
Pro um GP edit but it actually uses a
group policy Editor to do this now like
I said before there are registry keys
you can change to do this but they will
get reset over time so say we wanted to
permanently disable updates off forever
and ever ever and ever and we don't want
the windows resetting the registry
that's what's great about Group Policy
editor Group Policy editor will always
enforce those registry keys every time
we start up our windows so that's why I
did it this way rather than doing
through registry way I wanted a
permanent way I wanted everything to be
a permanent way and everything to be out
of revert as you can see here and I take
you to update the page and now we
physically can't actually update Windows
at all and say we want to revert as you
see we can resume updates here
yeah we've got Services now this is not
going to give you more frames or
anything it's just more of a cool thing
to do control thing to do that I wanted
to make and you know Flex minimal
background tasks and stuff like that so
services off it'll come up with a
massive warning okay script does not
support Wi-Fi if your PC depends on
Wi-Fi Clos this window the script will
intentionally run minimal Services
certain program settings and options May
encounter issues off fa to run that is
normal by Design if you experien any
problems please switch back to servic as
default so a lot of people were
complaining about their microphone not
working on Windows 11 that's normal
because Windows 11 is now tied to some
UDP up with a with a with a different
service it's is silly this is all about
how to run B minimal so there's some
games that might work right it's kind of
cool it's all about running bad if
Windows fails to boot or log in after
applying the script please access your
restore point from the advance recovery
set up menu so you press enter now it's
actually going to force you to create a
restore point okay it'll say create a
restore so at this point if you want to
play with a script create a restore
point right because if you screw up or
if your particular system doesn't agree
with this okay that way if you get get
an unrecoverable Boot and you're not
able to boot into Windows because of
this now I have sort of foolproof this
and I've tested this with multiple in
multiple VMS multiple os's and and I've
got lots of other people to test this
but just in case just in case you make a
restore point now obviously if you can't
boot into Windows you're probably
thinking how how can I make a restore
point of that if you specifically can't
boot into Windows after running this um
fail boot I think it's three or four
times in Windows so turn the PC on wait
a little bit then Force turn it off and
do that four or five times and you
should be the recovery menu should come
up and then through the recovery menu
you remember the menu that I showed you
at the beginning of this video on a
different way under to get into bias you
can load your system restore point from
there now we'll go through with a script
and turn the services off now I have had
to add four Services here we'll go ahead
and start just to show you guys I've had
to add four Services enabled here for
some people that might be on a Microsoft
account or have multiple accounts um on
the window
machine um unfortunately but if anyone
has a little bit of Will and brains you
can go through the script yourself and
manually change those they are
documented in the script all of my
scripts have documented and they have
notes in them windows processes 31
background processes like n me know is
still booting up running some other
stuff but as you can see it's pretty
cool there's a lot of stuff that's not
going to work just a heads up guys so
here are the services that are enabled
by default like I said I think four or
five of them I had to enable for
Microsoft account and a multiple windows
account but still pretty bare minimal um
which is nice a lot of these disabled a
lot of these are enabled by default or
running in the background right
[Music]
now there are still some other
backgrounds pass that bothered me and I
just thought it was cool to be able to
disable them because Windows hasn't
given us the option to to be able to you
know remove uh toggle them on and off so
M sync you might have seen before that
green thing that that popped up um
search start shell host I made a script
to be able to toggle that on and off
just to flex minimal services so I do
that now this one will actually force
you to make a system restore point as
well and give you a bit of a warning so
now we won't have start search Shell at
all now the start menu is not going to
be functional right click Works your fly
outs aren't going to be functional at
all but it's cool to flex minimal
processes so
I don't none of you run this like as a
daily right it's just cool to do as an
example let's go in here you're going to
get an error because the service isn't
running like that that is normal like
don't think your PC is broken it's not
everything is safe and revertible you
can revert this I don't really recommend
playing with sort of any of these in
here maybe really low in pieces that are
willing to be completely vulnerable
maybe play with the security one but um
you know you didn't hear that from me
just thought it was called be able to
take back control from your Windows
operating system that covers the full
optimization guide and I've been
recording all day and I have a lot of
editing to do but I believe I've covered
everything so if you enjoyed this video
and you appreciate all the effort um and
headache and time that I've put into
this thing please give this uh YouTube
channel a sub um and look forward to my
other content sad of breaking down all
this stuff and explaining things I'll
see you guys in the next one thank you
very much for watching
Bye Bill
Gates Bill Gates who's your P Bill
Gates Bill Gates window so bad Bill
Gates Bill Gates please fix Windows Bill
Gates Bill Gates these F windows
[Music]